Welcome.
In this short module we'll talk about
information integration which refers
to the problem of using many different
information sources to accomplish a task.
In this module, we'll look at the problems
and solutions through a few use cases.
So after this video, you'll be able to
explain the data integration problem,
define integrated views and schema
mapping, describe the impact of increasing
the number of data sources, appreciate
the need to use data compression,
And describe record linking,
data exchange, and data fusion tasks.
Our first use case starts with
an example given at an IBM website for
their information integration products.
It represents a very common
scenario in today's business world.
Due to the changing market dynamics,
companies
are always selling off a part of their
company or acquiring another company.
As these mergers and acquisitions happen,
databases which were developed and
stored separately in different companies
would now need to be brought together.
Now take a minute to read this case.
This is the case of an expanding financial
services group that's growing its customer
base in different countries.
And all they want is a single view
of their entire customer base.
In other words, it does not matter
which previous company originally had
the customers, Suncorp-Metway
want to consolidate all customer
information as if they were
in one single database.
And in reality, of course, they may
not want to buy a huge machine and
migrate every subsidiary
company's data into it.
What they're looking to create is possibly
a software solution which would make all
customer-related data to appear as though
they were together as a single database.
This software solution is called
an information integration system.
This will help them ensure that they have
a uniform set of marketing campaigns for
all their customers.
Let's try to see, hypothetically, of
course, what might be involved in creating
this combined data and what kind of use
the integrated data might result in.
So we first create
a hypothetical scenario.
Although Suncorp have a large
number of data sources,
we will take a much simpler situation and
have only two data sources from two
different financial service companies.
The first data source,
which is an insurance company that manages
it's data with a relation of DBMS,
this database has nine tables where the
primary object of information is a policy.
The company offers many
different types of policies
sold to individual people by their agents.
Now as it's true for all insurance
companies, policyholders pay their monthly
dues, and sometimes people make claims
against their insurance policies.
When they do, the details of the claims
are maintained in the database.
These claims can belong to different
categories, and when the claims have
paid to the claimants, the transaction
is recorded in the transactions table.
As we have done several times now,
the primary keys of the table
are the underlined attributes here.
The second company in
our example is a bank,
which also uses a relational database.
In this bank, both individuals and
businesses called corporations here,
can have accounts.
Now accounts can be of different types.
For example, a money market account
is different from a savings account.
A bank also maintains its transactions
in a table, which can be really large.
But the dispute in a bank record
case happens when the bank is
charged a customer, or the customer has
declined responsibility of the charge.
This can happen, for example, if a
customer's Internet account was hacked or
a debit card got stolen.
The bank keeps a record
of these anomalies and
fraudulent events in a disputes table,
all right.
Let's see what happens after the data
from these two subsidiary companies
are integrated.
After the merger the company wants to
do a promotional goodwill activity.
They would like to offer
a small discount to their
insurance policyholders if they're also
customers of the newly acquired bank.
How do you identify these customers?
Let's see.
In other words, we need to use the table
shown on the left to create the table
shown on the right called
discount candidates.
One is to create a yellow tables from
the insurance company database, and
the blue table from the bank database,
and then join them to construct the table
with a common customer ID, and both
the policyKey and bank account number.
Now, this relation, which is derived that
is computed by querying two different
data sources and combining their results,
is called an integrated view.
It is integrated because the data is
retrieved from different data sources,
and it's called a view because
in database terminology
it is a relation computed
from other relations.
To populate the integrated
view discount candidates,
we need to go through a step
called schema mapping.
The term mapping means to
establish correspondence between
the attributes of the view, which is
also called a target relation, and
that of the source relations.
For example, we can map the full address
from individuals to the address attribute
in discountCandidates, but
this would only be true for
customers whose names and
addresses match in the two databases.
As you can see, policyholders uses
the full name of a customer, whereas
individuals has it broken down into first
name, middle initial, and last name.
On the other hand, full address is
a single field in individuals, but
represented in full attributes
in the policyholders relation.
The mappings of account number and
policyKey are more straightforward.
Well, what about customer ID which doesn't
correspond to anything in the four
input relations?
We'll come back to this later on.
Okay, now we'll define
an integrated relation.
How do we query?
For example,
how do you find the bank account number
of a person whose policyKey is known?
You might think, what's the problem here?
We have a table.
Just say select account number from
discount candidates where policyKey
is equal to 4-937528734, and we're done.
Well, yes, you can write this query,
but how the query be evaluated?
That depends on what's called the query
architecture of the data
integration system.
The figure on the left shows
the elements of this architecture.
We'll discover it in more detail,
but on this slide,
we'll just describe
the three axes of this cube.
The vertical z axis specifies
whether we have one data source or
multiple data sources.
Our interest is in the case where
there are multiple data sources.
The x axis asks whether the integrated
data is actually stored physically
in some place or whether it is computed
on the fly, each time a query is asked.
If it is all precomputed and stored,
we say that the data is materialized.
And if it is computed on the fly,
we say it's virtual.
The y axis asks whether
there is a single schema or
global schema defined all
over the data integrated for
an application or whether the data
stay in different computers and
it is accessed in a peer-to-peer
manner at runtime.
Thus, the seemingly simple select
project query will be evaluated
depending on which part of the cube
our architecture implements.
But for now,
let's return to our example use case.
An obvious goal of an information
integration system
is to be complete and accurate.
Complete means no eligible record
from the source should be absent in
the target relation.
Accurate means all the entries in
the integrated relation should be correct.
Now we said on the previous
slide that a matching
customer is a person who
was in both databases and
has the same name and
address in the two databases.
Now let's look at some example records.
Specifically, consider the records
marked by the three arrows.
The two bank accounts and
the policy record do not match for name or
for address.
So our previous method would discard them.
But look at the records closely.
Do you think they might all
belong to the same customer?
Maybe this lady has a maiden name and
a married name, and
has moved from one address to another.
Maybe she changed her Social Security
number somewhere along the way.
So this is called
a record linkage problem.
That means we would like to ensure that
the set of data records that belong to
a single entity are recognized,
perhaps by clustering
the values of different attributes or
by using a set of matching rules so
that we know how to deal with it
during the integration process.
For example, we need to determine
which of the addresses should be
used in the integrated relation.
Which of the two bank accounts?
If the answer is both accounts 102 and
103, we will need to change
the schema of the target's relation
to a list instead of an atomic number
to avoid creating multiple tuples for
the same entity.
As we saw, the schema of adding
process is a task of figuring out
how elements of the schema from two
sources would relate to each other and
determining how they would
map the target schema.
You also saw that this is not really
a simple process, that we are trying to
produce one integrated relation using
a couple of relations from each source.
In a Big Data situation,
there are dozens of data sources, or
more because the company's growing and
each source may have a few hundred tables.
So it becomes very hard to actually solve
this correspondence-making problem
completely and accurately just because
the number of combinations one has to
go through is really, really high.
One practical way to tackle this problem
is not to do a full-scale detail
integration in the beginning but
adopt what's called a pay-as-you-go model.
The pay-as-you-go data
management principle is simple.
The system should provide some basic
integration services at the outset and
then evolve the schema mappings between
the different sources on an as needed
basis.
So given a query, the system should
generate a best effort or approximate
answers from the data sources for
a perfect schema mappings do not exist.
When it discovers a large number
of sophisticated queries or
data mining tasks over certain sources,
it will guide the users to make
additional efforts to integrate
these sources more precisely.
Okay, so how does the first
approximate schema mapping performed?
One approach to do this is called
Probabilistic Schema Mapping.
We'll describe it in more detail next.
In the previous step,
we just decided to create the disk count
candidates rrelation in an ad hoc way.
And in a Big Data situation,
we need to carefully determine
what the integrated schema,
also called mediated schemas, should be,
and we should evaluate them properly.
Since our toy company is trying
to create a single customer view,
it's natural to create an integrated
table called customers.
But how can we design this table?
Here are some options.
We can create the customer table to
include individuals and corporations and
then use a flag called customer
type to distinguish between them.
Now in the mediated schema then,
the individuals first name,
middle initial, last name,
policyholder's name and
corporation's name would all
map to Customer_Name similarly.
The individual's full address,
the corporation's registered address,
and the policyholder's address,
plus city, plus state,
plus zip would all map
to customer address.
Now we can enumerate all such choices of
which attributes to group together and
map for each single attribute
in the target schema.
But no matter how you'll do it,
it will never be a perfect fit because
not all these combinations
would go well together.
For example, should that date of
birth be included in this table?
Would it make sense for corporations?
In Probabilistic Mediated Schema Design,
we answer this question by
associating probability values
with each of these options.
To compute these values, we need to
quantify the relationships between
attributes by figuring out which
attributes should be grouped or
clustered together?
Now two pieces of information
available in the source schemas
can serve as evidence for
attribute clustering.
One, the parallel similarity
of source attributes, and two,
statistical properties
of service attributes.
The first piece of information indicates
when two attributes are likely to be
similar and is used for
creating multiple mediated schemas.
One can apply a collection of
attribute matching modules
to compute pairwise similarity.
For example, individual names and
policyholder names
are possibly quite similar.
Are individual names versus
corporation names similar?
Now, the similarity between two
source attributes, EIN and EZ,
measure how closely the two attributes
represent the same real world concept.
The second piece of information indicates
when two attributes are likely
to be different, and is used for
assigning probabilities to
each of the mediated schemas.
For example, date of birth and
corporation name possibly
will never co-occur together.
But for
large schemas with large data volumes,
one can estimate these measures by
taking samples from the actual database
to come up with reasonable
similarity co-occurrence scores.
To illustrate attribute regrouping, we
take a significant re-simplified example.
Here we want to create customer
transactions as a mediated relation
based upon the bank transactions and
insurance transactions.
Each attribute is given
an abbreviation for simplicity.
Below, you can see three
possible mediated schemas.
In the first one,
the transaction begin and end times
from bank transactions are grouped into
the same cluster as transaction date time
from the insurance transactions,
because all of them are the same type.
Similarly, transaction party, that
means who is giving or receiving money,
and transaction description are grouped
together with transaction details.
The second schema keeps
all of them separate.
And the third candidate schema
groups some of them and not others.
Now that we have multiple mediated
schemas, which one should we choose?
Now I'm presenting here
a qualitative account of the method.
The primary goal is to look for
what we can call consistency.
A source schema is consistent
with a mediated schema if
two different attributes of the source
schema do not occur in one cluster.
And in the example, Med3,
that means related schema three,
is more consistent with bank
transactions because, unlike Med1,
it keeps TBT,
TET in two different clusters.
Once this is done, we can count the number
of consistent sources for each candidate
mediated schema and then use this count
to come up with a probability estimate.
This estimate can then be used
to choose the k best schemas.
Should one ever choose more
than one just best schema?
Well, that's a hard question
to answer in general.
It is done when the top capability
estimates are very close to each other.